
# ToDo

- [ ] OS Reiew

# OS review

- [Have Done](#have-done)
- [Problems](#problems)
- [Technique Map](#technique-map)

## Have Done

- ### Motivation
    I  met with OS from grade 2. In that year, I read some books about Linux,'鸟哥的私房菜','linux 就是这个范','Linux核心编程', and tutorials about shell command, bash,sed and other tools like Vim. I thought I needed to learn C/c++ first, so  I read books like 'modern c programming language' and other tutorials. The biggest harvest is that I know shell command 'echo','ls', etc are written with C. In the second semester, I learned 'Computer Organization(CO))' and 'digital circuits'. I learned **finite state machine**, cpu execution model, alu, pipeline,cache, etc. the lab of 'CO' teached me some knowledge about FPGA, the other hardware I met is Arduino,embedded hardware and ARM in third year course 'embedded systems'. above all, I learned a lot  of knowledge about CPU in CO class. However, IO knowledge such as 'Interrupt, Memory mapped IO' which is important to OS is not teached. In that year, I also learned algrithms, however I knew that experience was bad. I spent much time in finding good resource about algorithms.

    In third year, I began to learn OS course. I felt puzzled about the lecture and the lab. Before the midterm, I thought I could learn OS well. I recited the book chapter about 'modern operating systems'. After the midterm and Project 1 about Pintos , I realized I couldn't learn OS well in this way. One classmate told me that the lecture slides is from Berkeley,the project materials is from Standford, and the lab materials from Sichuan university. During the last half semester. I felt diappointed. That summer holiday, I searched for Berkeley CS classes. I learned their cs61a, cs61b and cs61c courses, I realized the differences about their courses and our courses. I also learned cs 170 in berkeley and cs 161 in standford to enhance my algorithms level. the biggest harvest is I knew the conections about gragh and dynamic programming, FFT. 

    In the fourth year, I found materials from OSdev. In that period, I thought 'operating systems principle and practice' was good for leraning os,I read it several times. I knew that the principles and abstractions such as dead lock are illustrated well, but I still did not know how real operating system implement. I turned to learn compiler, from '豆瓣', I saw that automata theory should learn first. I learn cs172, from 'Introduction to computation theory', I knew the ralation about machine and language. I had a feel about compiler. From begin to end, I only implemented Regular language and finite automata(implement with C, adapted from the author of Unix and C), the first stage of compiler, convert to token streams. The biggest harvest is that compiler virtualizes language, os virtualizes machine.

    In the spring holiday,first year of master in Sustech, due to the disaster, I had much time to develop real OS( apply os principles to practice). I thought Pintos contains too many codes(about 30000 lines). So I turned to small OS for reference. Finally, I selected Xv6 from Mit(qinghua also has a great teaching os). Firstly, I read the x86 reference mannual, knew a little about GDT, interrupt, real mode, protected mode. When I did Lab1, I felt happy, I thought I could learn OS well, I spent two weeks in bootloader section, knew a lot about OS loading( real mode to protected mode). The biggest harvest is that I solved one puzzle in my head: How operating system boots. Then I turned to memory management, this part is difficult than bootloader. firstly I did not knew paging well, I want to give up, I found materials from os kernel tutorial ,x86 reference, some references from Pintos and lab2 solution, I finally got the idea of paging and memory management. Then I was stopped by ELF foramt,GDT VGA print, physical,virtual memory management concept and hardware(clock can provides memory size and distribution). I finally get over those problems, implement a memory management module. The third part is 
    user env(process), this part is more difficult than the previous two. I tried to complete the lab and implement user env. The biggest harvest is that I really know the meaning of thread virtualizes cpu, paging virtualizes memory. however, because of thin knowledge about interrupt, system call, exceptions,relation between function call and interrupt handler procedure, and how x86 handle interrupt and kernel mode,user mode switch, stack switch,argument parsing. The biggest harvest of this lab is that I really knew system call is the interface of user process(printf in the user process wrriten in C called system call, swicthed to kernel mode then in kernel mode, kernel call printk to print information).
    
    So the tour begins. 



## Problems

1. interrupt, exception, syscall; kernel mode,user mode transition. How x86 handle these concepts; what's the relation between function call and interrupt handler from argument parsing to stack changing.

2. due to the increase of the kernel code such as memory management ,vga and user env, I had trouble in testing interrupt. How to test hardware concept, where to insert code without ruining original kernel code.

3. what's the right order(technique Map) of user env, lock, and context switch.





## Technique Map

- [ ] understand hardware concept and how x86 handles them.
- [ ] find the relation between function call and interrupt handler.
- [ ] test hardware concept