## TODO

- [ ] Calling principles and x86 conventions.
- [ ] GDT,IDT, ring level transfer principles
- [ ] interrupt handler vs. normal call 


## Calling pinciples and x86 conventions.

### Principles

Procedure call is a fundamental control transfer. In assembly words, it is a custom jump. In method-oriented(inout,output) words, it parses arguments and returns
values. A function(A) can call aother function(B). A is **caller**, B is **callee**. There are several [issues](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spr11/cos217/lectures/15AssemblyFunctions.pdf) to be considered here: 

1. calling and return
    how caller go to the callee address?
    how callee return to the caller address?
2. pass arguments
    how does caller function pass arguments?

3. storing local variables
    where callee store local cariables.

4. handling registers
    how callee and caller uses same registers without interference.

5. return value.
    how does callee send return value to the caller.


> calling and return

From assembly view, just arithmetic,jump,condition operation is allowed. caller goes to the caller means that caller jmp to the callee address. But how callee return to the caller address?
There are several attempts: 1. in the end of callee, jmp to a fixed address; 2. return address saved to a register; 3. save the ret address to the stack. 1 failed at multiple caller call callee situation. 2 failed at register will be updated. 3 is the right solution, which supports recursive and self call. In computation theory words, stack machine  is used at context free grammar.

> pass arguments

several attempts: 1. use register to save arguments. 2 use stack to save arguments. 1. failed if too many arguments(finite registers). 2 run slower than 1.
In modern compiler, 1 and 2 mix together.

> storing local variables.

IA 32 store local variables in stack.

> handling registers.

In caller's view:caller saved registers and callee saved registers.

### X86 conventions

In the basic of principle, x86 provides stack frame pointer(`leave` and `enter` instruction), which points to the base address of
a function frame beside a stack pointer. the stack frame is helpful in debugging(trace back).

what x86 instuctions support those principles? 

1. call and return.

`call` and `ret` instruction support call and return.

`call` means store caller's instruction pointer to the stack, and jump to callee address.
`ret` means pop caller's instrcution pointer to the instruction pointer.

2. [x86 register usage](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse351/17sp/lectures/CSE351-L12-procedures-IIandExec_17sp-ink-day2.pdf)

%rax: return value; caller saved

%rdi,...,%r9: arguments ; caller saved

% r10, %r11: caller saved;

%rbx, %r12, %r13, %14: callee saved

%rbp: callee-saved ;frame pointer

%rsp: special callee save

## GDT,IDT, ring level transfer principles

### Review of bootloader(GDT, real mode to protected mode, tool chain configuration,ELF foramt)

> bootloader procedure

1. Power-Up(Reset Vector) Handling

When an IA bootstrap processor(BSP) ppwers on, the first address that is fetched and executed
is at address 0xFFFFFFF0, also known as the reset vector. This access the ROM device at the top of the ROM-0x10. 
The bootloader must always contain a jump to the initialization code in these top 16 bytes.

2. Mode selection

The processor must be placed into one of the following modes:

- Real mode
- Flared protected mode
- Segment protected mode

3. Real Mode(16-bit code and register)

The physical address is calculated by SS<<4 +IP. Real mode only allows axxessinf 1MB of memory.
Interrupt handling is through the Interrupt Vector table.

4. Flat Protected Mode(32 bit code and register)

Interrupt handling is through the Interrupt descriptor table.

5.  Initial  Processor Mode

When the processor is first powered-on, it will be in a special mode similar to Real Mode, but with the top
12 address lines being asserted high, allowing boot code to be accessed direcly form NVRAM(0xFFFxxxxx). Upon execution of the 
first long jump, these 12 address lines will be driven according to the instructions by firmware. If one of the protected modes is not entered before the first long jump, the processor will enter real mode.

6 ... processor, memory, IO setup....

7. booting an OS

first, loads the first stage bootloader in to memory location 7C0:0 and jumps to that location while the processor
is in Real Mode.

8. Memory Map

what memory regions are available for os consumption.
how bootloader acess map: use real mode interrupt service 15h, function E8h, sub-function 20h(INT15/E820).

> How SeaBIOS initialize boot process.(QEMU version)

[SeaBIOS code flow](https://www.seabios.org/Execution_and_code_flow)