## x86machine

issues:
1. machine initialization state
    how memory,interrupt state should be.
2. real mode to protected mode
    how control registers set
3. gdt setting and loading
    how to set gdt in assembly and how selector init
4. how to build with first 512 byte be 0x55aa.

5. how to specify link address be 0x7c00

6. how to read kernel segment from disk. and how much the ELF specify the kernel size.

7. x86 instrcutions. (IA32 AT&T)

solutions:

1. enable a20 default, disable interrupt and direction

2. cr0 register is used for system state, paging, protected mode

3. gdt has entries, notice the privilege level.

4. Here we use python padding zeros between instructions and 0x55aa. if the code too large, can use gcc optimization parameter

5. LD_BOOTFLAGS:=-m    elf_i386   -Ttext 0x7C00  -e entry

6. out in instruction

7. [Instruction set](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs421/papers/x86-asm/asm.html)
   [another version](http://flint.cs.yale.edu/cs422/doc/pc-arch.html)
   > Registers

   EAX: arithmetic

   ECX : loop counter

   ESP : stack pointer

   EBP: frame pointer
   
   EBX,EDX:
   
   ESI,EDI: index register  ->`movsb`

   EFLAGS: control register

   EIP: instruction register

   CR0 — Contains system control flags that control operating mode and states of the processor.

   CR2 — Contains the page-fault linear address (the linear address that caused a page fault)

   CR3 — Contains the physical address of the base of the paging-structure hierarchy and two flags (PCD and 
PWT). Only the most-significant bits (less the lower 12 bits) of the base address are specified; the lower 12 bits 
of the address are assumed to be 0. The first paging structure must thus be aligned to a page (4-KByte) 
boundary. The PCD and PWT flags control caching of that paging structure in the processor’s internal data 
caches (they do not control TLB caching of page-directory information).
When using the physical address extension, the CR3 register contains the base address of the page-directory-

   > decare static data regions

   ```
        .data
        var:
            .byte 64
            .byte 10
        x:
            .short 42
        y:
            .long 3000
        s:
            .long 1,2,3
        bar:
            .zero 10
        
        str:
            .string "hello"
   ```

   > addressing memory

    ```
    mov (%ebx), %eax
    mov %ebx, var(,1)
    mov -4(%esi),%eax
    mov %cl,(%esi,%eax,1)
    move (%esi,%ebx,4),%eax


    ```

    > data types

    movb,movw,movl: byte, 2byte,4byte.

    >data movement

    mov,push,pop,lea

    >arithmetic

    add,sub,imul,idiv,inc,dec,and,or,xor,not,neg,shl,shr

    >control flow

    jmp, je,jne,jz,jg,jge,jl,jle,cmp,call,ret,leave, int, iret.

    >calling conventions

    to write assembly language subroutines that are safely callable from C.
    In later assignment, you may call c procedures from assembly, be familiar with conventions.